feat(curriculum): add string method workshop (#66936)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/workshop-employee-profile-validator/69e774b82fe0bfdb684f95b4.md

---
id: 69e774b82fe0bfdb684f95b4
title: Step 17
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-17
---

# --description--

Sometimes you need to check how a string starts. Python provides a method `.startswith()` for this. It returns `True` if the string begins with a given prefix, otherwise it returns `False`.

Here's an example:

> ```python

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```py
````

code = 'EMP-001'
print(code.startswith('EMP')) # True
print(code.startswith('001')) # False
```

> Create a variable `employee_code` and assign it the value `'EMP-2024-SD'`. Then create a `starts_with_emp` variable that checks if `employee_code` starts with `'EMP'`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a variable `employee_code` and assign it the string `EMP-2024-SD`. Then create a `starts_with_emp` variable that checks if `employee_code` starts with `EMP`.
```

# --hints--

You should create a variable named `employee_code`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`_Node(_code).has_variable('employee_code')`)) })
```

You should assign `'EMP-2024-SD'` to `employee_code`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`
node = _Node(_code).find_variable('employee_code')
not node.is_empty() and node.is_equivalent("employee_code = 'EMP-2024-SD'")
`)) })
```

You should create a variable named `starts_with_emp`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`_Node(_code).has_variable('starts_with_emp')`)) })
```

> You should use `.startswith('EMP')` on `employee_code` to assign `starts_with_emp` a value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should use `.startswith('EMP')` on `employee_code` and assign the result to the `starts_with_emp` variable.
```

---
id: 69e774b82fe0bfdb684f95b4
title: Step 17
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-17
---

# --description--

> Sometimes you need to check how a string starts. Python provides a method `.startswith()` for this. It returns `True` if the string begins with a given prefix, otherwise it returns `False`.

Reviewer: This says "Python provides a method `.startswith()` for this" where step 18 says "Python provides the `.endswith()` method for this" and step 3 says "Python provides the built-in `.find()` method for this purpose". The three sentences are parallel by design, so they should be worded the same way.

```suggestion
Sometimes you need to check how a string starts. Python provides the `.startswith()` method for this. It returns `True` if the string begins with a given prefix, otherwise it returns `False`.
```

Here's an example:

```python
code = 'EMP-001'
print(code.startswith('EMP')) # True
print(code.startswith('001')) # False
```

> Create a variable `employee_code` and assign it the string `EMP-2024-SD`. Then create a `starts_with_emp` variable that checks if `employee_code` starts with `EMP`.

Reviewer: "named" and "the string", see steps 7 and 14.

```suggestion
Create a variable named `employee_code` and assign it the string `EMP-2024-SD`. Then create a variable named `starts_with_emp` that checks whether `employee_code` starts with `EMP`.
```

---
id: 69e774b82fe0bfdb684f95b4
title: Step 16
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-16
---

# --description--

Sometimes you need to check how a string starts or ends. Python provides two methods for this:

- `.startswith(prefix)` returns `True` if the string begins with the given prefix
- `.endswith(suffix)` returns `True` if the string ends with the given suffix

For example:

```python
code = "EMP-001"
print(code.startswith("EMP"))  # True
print(code.endswith("001"))    # True
```

Create a variable `employee_code` and assign it `"EMP-2024-SD"`. Also, create:

- a `starts_with_emp` variable that checks if `employee_code` starts with `"EMP"`

> - a `ends_with_com` variable that checks if `clean_email` ends with `".com"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- an `ends_with_com` variable that checks if `clean_email` ends with `".com"`
```
